# barcode-search

A simple ArchivesSpace/Voyager barcode lookup tool. Returns a CSV containing collection and container data for each barcode.

## Requirements

* Python 3.4+
* `requests` module
* ArchivesSpace 2.4+

__NOTE:__ If running the executable files, the Python-related requirements will automatically be installed.

## Quick Start

* Clone or download repository.
* If using executable file: Mac users open `barcode_search_mac` file, PC users open `barcode_search.exe`.
* If using `.py` file:

```
$ cd /Users/username/pathtofile
$ python barcode_search.py
```

## Tutorial

`barcode_search` is a simple tool that searches for barcodes via the ArchivesSpace and Voyager APIs, and returns a CSV file containing collection and container data needed to track the off-site transfers of Yale's Manuscripts and Archives department. To use the program, click on the appropriate executable file and follow the on-screen prompts:

__Enter ArchivesSpace login information__

Enter the URL for the ArchivesSpace API and your ArchivesSpace username and password to connect to the system.

__Enter path to input CSV file__

The tool takes a CSV like the included barcodes.csv example file as input. Be sure to include a header in the CSV file, as the tool skips the first row. At this point the tool will create an output CSV file in the same directory as the input CSV.

If the input CSV file is in the same directory as the executable file then you can just enter the file name (i.e. barcodes.csv) when prompted for the file path. If it is not, then enter the full path to the file (i.e. /Users/username/filepath/barcodes.csv or C:\Users\username\filepath\barcodes.csv).

__Wait...__

The script should continue running even if it encounters an error retrieving data from ArchivesSpace or Voyager. If for some reason it stops before finishing, please submit an [issue](https://github.com/yalemssa/barcode_search/issues). Be sure to include a description of any error messages received.

__Review outfiles!__

The tool creates two outfiles - a program log and a CSV outfile containing collection and container data.

The log file contains status and error messages recorded during script runtime.

The following data is included on the output CSV:

* Barcode
* Series
* Collection identifier
* Container number
* Collection title
* Container profile
* Location

Both files will open automatically after the script finishes.

Please note that the output from the Voyager API will be slightly different than that of the ArchivesSpace API. For instance, the Library Shelving Facility is represented as 'LSF: Library Shelving Facility [LSF]' in ArchivesSpace but as 'LSF-Use in SML, Manuscripts and Archives only (Non-Circ)' in Voyager.

Container and series information is also presented differently in Voyager. Box and folder numbers, container types (i.e. box, reel), and series/accession numbers are all combined into a single field. In the output CSV generated by the `search_barcodes` application Voyager container and series information will all be found in column D, which for records retrieved from ArchivesSpace will only container the container number. There is no field for container profiles in Voyager.

## Questions?

[Email me](mailto:alicia.detelich@yale.edu) or submit an [issue](https://github.com/yalemssa/barcode_search/issues)
